docs: add new read-only states pattern (#3279)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/patterns/read-only-states-pattern/index.mdx

---
title: Read-only states
description:
  Read-only states are applied to components that users can review but not
  modify and remove a component’s interactive functions.
---

<PageDescription>

Read-only states are applied to components that users can review but not modify

> and remove a component’s interactive functions.

Author: Agreed! Thank you.

| Permissions         | A user’s credentials allow them to view the component but not modify it.                                        |

### When not to use

- If the component does not have an enabled state, do not use a read-only state
  to display static information.
- As an alternative to a disabled state, read-only and disabled states serve
  different purposes. For example, when a component is temporarily unavailable
  pending user actions or decisions (such as completing a form or choosing an
  option), the component's state should be temporarily disabled, not read-only.
- If the component would otherwise be disabled, components in a disabled state
  should not change to a read-only state.

## Formatting

### Anatomy

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Read-only state anatomy.](/images/read-only-anatomy.png)

<Caption>Read-only state anatomy.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

1. **Background color change:** Having a transparent background for fields.
2. **Border color change:** De-emphasizing selection and clickability to make
   information more readable.

> 3. **Icon color change:** Keepingg embedded icons in the component for context

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Icon color change:** Keeping embedded icons in the component for context
```

>    but displaying that icons are not interactive with color and cursor changes.

Reviewer: I think we should add a 4th around the type
"Text color no change: text color remains the same as in the enabled state and should still pass 4.5:1 color contrast rules."

Author: Good idea! Will add 👍

## Visual guidance

Read-only states use subtle changes to a component’s style to emphasize critical
information and de-emphasize or remove icon signifiers.

### Structure

Components should maintain the same structure and spacing used in the

> component’s enabled state. In most cases, elements in the enabled state should
> be present in the read-only state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
component’s enabled state. In most cases, elements in the enabled state are present in the read-only state.
```

#### Selection controls

Selection controls offer users a selection from pre-determined options. Common
selection controls include: checkboxes, radio buttons, toggles, dropdowns,

> selects, comboboxes and multiselects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
selects, combo boxes, and multiselects.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Read-only states for selection controls.](/images/read-only-selection-controls.png)

<Caption>Read-only states for selection controls.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Bound entry controls

Bound entry controls allow users to input numeric data, like dates, times, and
numeric values. Common bound entry controls include: number inputs, sliders,
date pickers, and time pickers.

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Read-only states for bound entry controls.](/images/read-only-bound-entry-controls.png)

<Caption>Read-only states for bound entry controls.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Interactive elements

Interactive elements included in a component’s enabled state should be removed

> or modified for its read-only state. Changes to color can be used to modify
> interactive elements and change their focus from interactive to informative.

Reviewer: I would avoid the word "focus" outside the context of the focus state.

```suggestion
or modified for its read-only state. Changes to color are used to indicate a modification to
interactive elements and a change in their purpose from interactive to informative.
```

should remain the same as the component’s enabled state.

#### Component fields

The field background color in components blends in with the overall UI or layer
background for read-only states, which helps differentiate it from the enabled
state.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Read-only">

![Read-only state for component field backgrounds.](images/read-only-component-fields.png)

</Tab>

<Tab label="Enabled">

![Enabled state for component field backgrounds.](images/read-only-component-fields-enabled.png)

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Component borders

In some cases, the border of controls in components changes color to emphasize
selected items for read-only states and de-emphasizes control interactivity.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Read-only">

![Read-only state for component controls.](images/read-only-component-controls.png)

</Tab>

<Tab label="Enabled">

![Enabled state for component controls.](images/read-only-component-controls-enabled.png)

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Component icon signifiers

Signifier icons included in a component’s enabled state, like chevron arrow

> icons, close icons, and calendar icons, should use the $icon-disabled color

Reviewer: ```suggestion
icons, close icons, and calendar icons, should use the `$icon-disabled` color
```

</DoDont>
<DoDont
colMd={6} colLg={6}
type="dont"
caption="Don’t use disabled states in place of read-only states.">

![Don’t use disabled states in place of read-only states.](./images/read-only-dont-1.png)

</DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

### Interactions

#### Mouse

The arrow cursor reinforces that a component is in a read-only state and is not
interactive. The cursor's state reflects a component's shift in focus from
interactive to informative.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Read-only state arrow cursor.](/images/read-only-cursor.png)

<Caption>Read-only state arrow cursor.</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Keyboard

Interactive operations included in a component’s enabled state should be removed
or modified for its read-only state. The component should remain navigable with
a keyboard.

## Content

Components should include the same content used in the component’s enabled
state. However, when the content in the enabled state is instructive, like a
dropdown with no current selection, the content may need to change to be
informative.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

<Tabs>

<Tab label="Read-only">

> ![Read-only content for a dropdown with no selection.](images/read-only-content.png)

Reviewer: In this image, the field text color should still pass 4.5:1 contrast, change to text-secondary?
<img width="878" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11670886/206320734-527c0f2e-cdf8-4581-bbe1-8edbab84dcbd.png">

Author: Ok yes, I thought something was off here. I will try out `$text-secondary`.

</Tab>

<Tab label="Enabled">

![Enabled content for a dropdown with no selection.](images/read-only-content-enabled.png)

</Tab>

</Tabs>

</Column>
</Row>

## Accessibility

When considering keyboard accessibility,  it can be helpful to distinguish
between navigation and operation. A component that can be reached by keyboard is
navigable. Read-only components remain navigable so that users can review the

> information they contain. (This contrasts with disabled components, which cannot
> be reached by keyboard.) However, read-only components are not operable—users

Reviewer: That one sentence doesnt need the ( ) and I removed the em dash structure. 
```suggestion
information they contain. This contrasts with disabled components, which cannot be reached by a keyboard. However, read-only components are not operable, meaning users
```

---
title: Read-only states
description:
  Read-only states are applied to components that users can review but not
  modify and remove a component’s interactive functions.
---

<PageDescription>

Read-only states are applied to components when the user is allowed to review

> but not modify the component. It removed all interactive functions from the

Reviewer: oops this is my own typo, should this be "removes" instead?
```suggestion
but not modify the component. It removes all interactive functions from the
```

Author: Oh, yep! Good catch.
